
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A license is hereby granted to reproduce this software source code and
to create executable versions from this source code for personal,
non-commercial use.  The copyright notice included with the software
must be maintained in all copies produced.

THIS PROGRAM IS PROVIDED "AS IS". THE AUTHOR PROVIDES NO WARRANTIES
WHATSOEVER, EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, TITLE, OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE
AUTHOR DOES NOT WARRANT THAT USE OF THIS PROGRAM DOES NOT INFRINGE THE
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF ANY THIRD PARTY IN ANY COUNTRY.

Copyright (c) 1994-2006, John Conover, All Rights Reserved.

Comments and/or bug reports should be addressed to:

    john@email.johncon.com (John Conover)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This directory contains the data constructions for all markets, and
fabricated test cases. There are 3 commands that can be issued from
the top level:

    1) make, which will enter into the directories, and make the data
    construct for each and all specific directories/markets/data

    2) make clean, which will enter into the directories, and remove
    all deciduous files-leaving only those files which are required in
    the ../doc directory for inclusion in the LaTeX documentation

    3) make realclean, which will enter into the directories, and
    remove all files constructed, leaving only the starting data, and
    link files into the Master directory

Each directory/data can be constructed/reconstructed individually by
"cd"'ing to the directory and using one of the commands above, since
all Makefile files, plot files, etc., are common and "ln -s"'ed to the
files in the Master directory.

The Master directory contains a Makefile, plot, and gnuplot file. The
Makefile is "ln -s"'ed to each market/data directory. The plot file is
also linked into each market/data directory, and can be used to
preview the data constructed with the command "gnuplot plot". The
gnuplot file is run from the Makefile, and makes the encapsulated
postscript files that will be included in the ../doc LaTeX
documentation.

Additionally, maketex.awk is an awk(1) script, and is executed from
the Master/Makefile during construction of the data in each
market/data directory, and makes a file, parameters.tex, that when
"input{.../parameters.tex}" from LaTeX, will load the data constructed
in each directory into LaTeX for formatting into the document in
../doc. The other awk scripts, 3divide.awk, and cumulativeproduct, are
used for calculational issues from the Makefile. See the scripts for
documentation.

To add a new market, make a new directory, establish links to
../Master/Makefile, ../Master/gnuplot, ../Master/plot, copy the data
for the market as the file name "data", and type make. The data file
should be a time series, one record per time value, in temporal
sequential order. See the documentation to the program "tsfraction"
for other specifics on the data file syntax. To include the market
data into the LaTeX documentation in ../doc, see appc.tex and appd.tex
for templates. The directory should be included in this directories
Makefile, in the 3 sections, all, clean, and realclean if the
directory is to be included in a "top down" compile.

In general, the directories with names beginning with us.* are
directories containing example data and constructions from various
departments of the United States Government. The directories with
names beginning with ts* are test cases, where the data files were
constructed, in one form or another, from the programs in
../simulation, and are generally used as examples, and/or software or
methodological construct testing.  There is a NOTES file, that is an
executable shell script, that will construct the data file in these
directories. All other directories, excepting the Master directory,
contain data files and constructions for various market segments, and
contain a NOTES file that is a dummy, and links the data for the
market segments as the data file.
