
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A license is hereby granted to reproduce this software source code and
to create executable versions from this source code for personal,
non-commercial use.  The copyright notice included with the software
must be maintained in all copies produced.

THIS PROGRAM IS PROVIDED "AS IS". THE AUTHOR PROVIDES NO WARRANTIES
WHATSOEVER, EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, TITLE, OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE
AUTHOR DOES NOT WARRANT THAT USE OF THIS PROGRAM DOES NOT INFRINGE THE
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF ANY THIRD PARTY IN ANY COUNTRY.

Copyright (c) 1994-2006, John Conover, All Rights Reserved.

Comments and/or bug reports should be addressed to:

    john@email.johncon.com (John Conover)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

These are programs that are useful when attempting a fractal analysis
on time series data. The programs include:

     tsshannon - calculate the probability, given the Shannon
     information capacity

     tslsq - make a least squares fit time series from a time series.

     tslogreturns - take the logarithmic returns of a time series

     tsintegrate - take the integral of a time series

     tshurst - calculate the Hurst exponent for a time series.

     tshcalc - calculate the H parameter for a one variable fBm time
     series.

     tsderivative - take the derivative of a time series

     tsnormal - make a histogram or frequency plot of a time series

     tsfraction - take the fraction of change of a time series

     tsshannonmax - returns of a time series with unfair weights

     tschangewager - change the unfair returns of a time series

     tssample - sample a time series

     tsXsquared - take the chi-square of two time series

     tsrms - take the root mean square of a time series

     tsavg - take the average of a time series

     tsmath - mathamatical operations on a time series

     tsavgwindow - take the windowed average of a time series

     tspole - single pole filter a time series

     tsdft - Discrete Fourier Transform (power spectrum) of a time series

     tsdeterministic - determine if a time series is deterministic

     tsnumber - number the records of a time series

     tsrmswindow - take the windowed root mean square of a time series

     tsstatest - make a statistical estimation of a time series

     tsunfraction - make a cumulative sum of the fraction of change of
     a time series

     tsshannonaggregate - calculate the aggregate Shannon probability

     tsinstant - take the instantaneous fraction of change of a time
     series

     tsshannonvolume - find the Shannon probability, based on trading
     volume, of a time series

     tsshannonfundamental - find the fundamental Shannon probability
     of a time series

     tsrunlength - find the run lengths of zero free intervals in a
     time series

     tsunshannon - shannon information capacity calculation, given the
     Shannon probability

     tsrootmean - find the root mean of a time series

     tsrunmagnitude - find the magnitude of the run lengths in a time
     series

     tskurtosis - find the coefficient of excess kurtosis of a time
     series

     tskurtosiswindow - find the windowed coefficient of excess
     kurtosis of a time series

     tsrootmeanscale - find the root mean of a time series

     tsscalederivative - take the derivative of a time series

     tsgain - find the gain of a time series

     tsgainwindow - find the windowed gain of a time series

     tskalman - take the Kalman filtered average of a time series

     tsroot - find the root of a time series

There is compatability among the file structures used, where
applicable.  The input file structure is a text file consisting of
records, in temporal order, one record per time series sample.  Blank
records are ignored, and comment records are signified by a '#'
character as the first non white space character in the record. Data
records must contain at least one field, which is the data value of
the sample, but may contain many fields-if the record contains many
fields, then the first field is regarded as the sample's time, and the
last field as the sample's value at that time.

The programs are written in ANSI standard C, but there is little or no
provisions for handling numerical exceptions. Usually, a great deal of
analytical skill is required in an interactive analysis of fractal
time series, and should probably not be attempted by the novice for
other than academic purposes. The user should consult, and have a
thorough knowledge of the concepts presented in the following
references:

    "Fractals, Chaos, Power Laws," Manfred Schroeder, W. H. Freeman
    and Company, New York, New York, 1991, ISBN 0-7167-2136-8.

    "Numerical Recipes in C: The Art of Scientific Computing," William
    H. Press, Brian P. Flannery, Saul A. Teukolsky, William
    T. Vetterling, Cambridge University Press, New York, 1988, ISBN
    0-521-35465-X.

    "The Art of Modeling Dynamic Systems", Foster Morrison, John Wiley
    & Sons, New York, New York, 1991.

    "Predictions", Theodore Modis, Simon & Schuster, New York, New
    York, 1992, ISBN 0-471-52004-7.

     "Complexification," John L. Casti, HarperCollins, New York, New
     York, 1994, ISBN 0-06-016888-9.

    "Chaos and Order in the Capital Markets," Edgar E. Peters, John
    Wiley & Sons, New York, New York, 1991, ISBN 0-471-53372-6.

    "Applied Chaos Theory: A Paradigm for Complexity," A. B. Cambel.
    Academic Press, San Diego, California, 1993, ISBN 0-12-155940-8.

    "Introduction to Fractals and Chaos", Richard M. Crownover, Jones
    and Bartlett Publishers International, London, England, 1995, ISBN
    0-86720-464-8.

    "Fractals", Jens Feder, Plenum Press, New York, New York, 1988,
    ISBN 0-306-42851-2.
